
API Environment Setup Documentation
Introduction
This document provides a comprehensive guide to set up the environment for developing APIs, including installing dependencies, configuring the development environment, and writing APIs.

Ensure that the following prerequisites are met before proceeding:

 Node.js and npm installed
 Text editor or IDE (e.g., Visual Studio Code)
 Terminal or command prompt
 Basic understanding of JavaScript and RESTful APIs
Step-by-Step Guide
1. Initialize the Project
Open the terminal or command prompt.
Create a new directory for your project.
Navigate into the project directory.
Run the following command to initialize a new Node.js project:
npm init 
2. Install Dependencies
Install Express.js, a popular Node.js web application framework, using npm:

npm install express
Install Firebase Admin SDK for interacting with Firebase services:

npm install firebase-admin
Install dotenv for managing environment variables:

npm install dotenv
Install nodemailer for sending emails:

npm install nodemailer
Install any other dependencies required for your specific project, such as database drivers, authentication libraries, etc.

3. Write APIs
Define routes for your APIs using Express's routing methods (app.get, app.post, etc.) in your app.js file.
Implement the logic for each API endpoint to handle requests and send responses.

4. Start the Server
Add code to start the Express server and listen for incoming requests:
javascript
Copy code
const PORT = process.env.PORT || 3000;
app.listen(PORT, () => {
    console.log(`Server is running on port ${PORT}`);
});

5. Test the APIs
Use tools like Postman or curl to test your APIs by sending requests to the defined endpoints.
Verify that the APIs return the expected responses and handle errors appropriately.

Conclusion
Congratulations! You have successfully set up your API environment, installed dependencies (including Firebase Admin SDK, dotenv, and nodemailer), configured Express, and written APIs. You can now start building your application using these APIs